======================================
 sssp - proxied s3 lookups and signing
======================================

Synopsis
--------

.. code-block:: text

    sssp web?

Description
-----------

SSSP is an HTTP proxy for S3 that can generate short-lived, signed URLs for
stored objects. By providing a server separate from S3 that can be placed
behind an authenticating proxy or firewall, SSSP allows a variety of common
security mechanisms to be used to limit access to S3 objects over HTTP while
taking advantage of S3's considerable bandwidth and parallelism.

Use-cases for SSSP include:

  * sharing of large files within an organization,

  * media service for public facing web applications,

  * distribution of internal software.

SSSP supports configuration via environment variables or STDIN.

Configuration
-------------

These settings can be passed as environment variables or fed to the server on
STDIN in colon separated format.

.. code-block:: bash

  # AWS Settings
  AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID           = account access key
  AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY       = secret
  AWS_REGION                  = eu-west-1, classic, us-east-1, ...

  # Storage settings
  SSSP_BUCKET                 = DNS friendly bucket name

  # Server settings
  SSSP_CONN                   = <ip>:<port> pair
  PORT                        = port to connect to, on localhost

SSSP is fairly liberal when parsing STDIN. In fact, Bourne shell .rc files,
like the follow example, are parsed without error:

.. code-block:: bash

  export SSSP_BUCKET=dist
  export SSSP_CONN=*:6000

However, SSSP does not parse shell quotes (which one is unlikely to need for
the kinds of values involved, given their rigid formats).

REST Interface
--------------

URLs in SSSP point to one of two objects: an item or a listing. Items
correspond to S3 objects; a GET retrieves a signed redirect to the object.
Listings are a sequence of URLs, in ascending order; a GET retrieves the
listing as a plaintext document, one URL per line.

..  TODO
    Signed redirects to items are, by default, good for ten seconds; but the
    time can be specified with the ``t`` parameter, which accepts a number of
    seconds or an ISO 8601 date. The signed redirect is always a 303 that
    points directly to Amazon S3. If the ``nosign`` parameter is given, the
    redirect points back to the S3P server; this is the identity for most URLs
    but can be useful when working with wildcards (see below).

.. code-block:: text

  GET http://sssp.io/p/a/t/h         # Signed for the default time (10s).

..  TODO
    GET http://sssp.io/p/a/t/h?t=_n_s  # Signed for _n_ seconds.
    GET http://sssp.io/p/a/t/h?t=_t_   # Signed until _t_.
    GET http://sssp.io/p/a/t/h?nosign  # Just this URL again.

A PUT to an item sets the item's content. DELETEs can be singular or plural. A
plural DELETE removes only the objects generated by a listing.

URLs are divided syntactically in to listings and items. A URL ending with a
slash is always a listing.

.. code-block:: text

  GET http://sssp.io/dist   # Signed redirect to an object called dist.
  GET http://sssp.io/dist/  # Listing of items below the key `dist'.

To make it easier to work with versioned or timestamped assets, SSSP supports
the ``@hi`` and ``@lo`` meta-paths. These correspond to the names that sort
highest and lowest according to semantic version sort, where non-digit chars
serve to delimit arrays of numbers. For common forms of dates, these have the
same effect as ASCII sort. (ASCII sort may specified, as well; please the
section WILDCARDS, below.)

.. code-block:: text

  GET http://sssp.io/dist/x/x-0.1.1.tgz
  GET http://sssp.io/dist/x/x-0.1.4.tgz
  GET http://sssp.io/dist/x/x-0.2.11.tgz
  GET http://sssp.io/dist/x/x-0.2.9.tgz

  # Retrieval with @hi and @lo.
  GET http://sssp.io/dist/x/@hi  -307->  http://sssp.io/dist/x/x-0.2.11.tgz
  GET http://sssp.io/dist/x/@lo  -307->  http://sssp.io/dist/x/x-0.1.1.tgz

Wildcards ``@hi`` and ``@lo`` used together with a count specify a set
wildcard; the result is a listing:

.. code-block:: text

  GET http://sssp.io/dist/x/@lo2  -200->  dist/x/x-0.1.1.tgz
                                          dist/x/x-0.1.4.tgz

Counts are the natural numbers starting at 0.

..  TODO
    The wildcard ``@*`` refers to "all the items" (``@hi*`` and ``@lo*`` are
    equivalent so just ``@*`` is enough.)

A counted wildcard, like ``@hi2``, can be suffixed with a tilde to form it's
complement -- so ``@hi2~`` is everything but the highest two items. This can
be useful for bulk deletion of old/new things.

Wildcards
---------

  ``@hi.semver``, ``@lo.semver``
    Key with highest or lowest version, according to a liberalized form of
    "semantic versioning", where version components are delimited by any
    non-digit characters.

  ``@hi.ascii``, ``@lo.ascii``
    Keys sorted ASCIIbetically, in the C locale (sorted purely by byte value).

  ``@hi``, ``@lo``
    The default sort, which is semantic version sort.

Examples
--------

.. code-block:: bash

  # Start web application.
  sssp < conf

  # Start web application with some configuration provided by the environment.
  export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=...
  export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=...
  sssp <<CONF
  SSSP_BUCKET: dist
  CONF

Bugs
----

Listing results should really be URLs. The time to sign should really be
configurable; or at least settable with a query parameter.

